CNVOUT2HTML


Purpose:

    Converts output from Version 0.3 of X-12-ARIMA into an accessible
	HTML file with formatted text (the -a runtime flag must be used
	when generating the output).

	This utility is a DOS utility - the examples below assume you are
	running the utility within a DOS command window, and are running
	the utility in the same directory that the utility is stored in.
	For integration into a Windows environment, download the
	Windows Interface for X-12-ARIMA (developed by Roxanne Feldpausch)
	from the following website:

		http://www.census.gov/srd/www/x12a/winx12home.html

		
Syntax:

    cnvout2html file.out { dir } 
    cnvout2html file.log { dir }
    cnvout2html file.err { dir }
    cnvout2html file.spc { dir }
    cnvout2html metafile.mta { dir }
    cnvout2html datafile.dta { dir }

    where:

    	file.out is the program output from a run of Version 0.3 of
		         X-12-ARIMA with the -a runtime flag;

	    file.err is the error output from a run of Version 0.3 of X-12-ARIMA
		         with the -a runtime flag;

	    file.log is the log file from a run of Version 0.3 of X-12-ARIMA
		         with the -a runtime flag;

	    file.spc is an input specification used in a run of Version 0.3 of
		         X-12-ARIMA with the -a runtime flag;

    	metafile.mta is a metafile used in a run of Version 0.3 of X-12-ARIMA
		             with the -a runtime flag;

		datafile.mta is a data metafile used in a run of Version 0.3 of
		             X-12-ARIMA with the -a runtime flag;
		
        dir is an optional output directory where the HTML files are stored -
		    partial directories are accepted.  If no directory is given,
			the program will write all files into the directory of the
			output files.

Note:

    CNVOUT2HTML assumes that Version 0.3 of X-12-ARIMA has been run with
	the -a runtime flag, which inserts codes in the output that indicate
	to the cnvout2html utility which table is to be processed.

	To run X-12-ARIMA on the input specification file nestarts.spc so
	that the output can be converted using cnvout2html, the user will
	need to enter

		x12a nestarts -a

	in a DOS command window.
	
	How to run the metafile usstarts.mta is given below:

		x12a -m usstarts -a

	Note that using the -a flag also invokes the functionality of the
	-w and -p runtime flags; for more information, consult the Reference
	Manual for Version 0.3 of X-12-ARIMA.

	The HTML file generated for X-12-ARIMA program output and log files
	will have internal links to allow the user to move from table to
	table while browsing the file.  Index files for the output are also
	generated, so the user can jump to a specific table in the output.

	The output produced by cnvout2html depends on the type of file the
	program encounters.  Specifying an X-12-ARIMA output file, as in

		cnvout2html outfile.out 

	will generate two files:

		- an HTML version of the output file named outfile.html, and
		- an index to that output file named outfile_index.html.

	Similarly, two files will be generated when processing an X-12-ARIMA
	log file; entering

		cnvout2html outfile.log 

	will generate:

		- an HTML version of the log file named outfile_log.html, and
		- an index to that HTML file named outfile_log_index.html.

    Processing the error file generated from an X-12-ARIMA run will
	generate an HTML file of that error file; no index is generated for
	the error file.

	So entering

		cnvout2html outfile.err

	will generate an HTML file containing the error output, in a file
	named outfile_err.html.

	It is cumbersome to have to enter these one at a time. Using input spec,
	metafiles, and data metafiles can make it easier.

	Using a input specification file as an input for the cnvout2html utility
	generates HTML output for the program output file, the error file and the
	log file, if one exists (remember if the input specification file was run
	as part of a metafile run, there would only be a log file associated with
	the metafile).

	Using a metafile as an input for the cnvout2htl utility generates HTML
	output for all the program output files and error files associated with
	the input specification files contained in the metafile, as well as the
	log file associated with the metafile.  There is also an index file
	linking all the output generated by processing the metafile.

	Using a data metafile as an input for the cnvout2htl utility generates
	HTML output for all the program output files and error files associated
	with the data files processed by the data metafile, as well as the log
	file associated with the data metafile.  There is also an index file
	linking all the output generated by processing the data metafile.

Example 1: Input specification file

    After running Version 0.3 of X-12-ARIMA on an input specification file
	named ne.spc as below:

		x12a ne -a

	running

		cnvout2html ne.spc c:\x12a\html\

	will generate

		- an HTML output file for the output file named ne.html,
		- an HTML index file for the output file named ne_index.html,
		- an HTML file for the error output named ne_err.html, 
		- an HTML file for the log output named ne_log.html, and
		- an HTML index file for the log output named ne_log_index.html,

	all in a subdirectory named c:\x12a\html.

Example 2: Metafile

    For a metafile named nacars.mta given below:

		uscars
		cancars
		mexcars

	and after running Version 0.3 of X-12-ARIMA as below:

		x12a -m nacars -a

	running

		cnvout2html nacars.mta c:\x12a\html\

	will generate

		- HTML output files named uscars.html, cancars.html, and mexcars.html
		  for the program output;
		- HTML index files named uscars_index.html, cancars_index.html, and
		  mexcars_index.html;
		- HTML files named uscars_err.html, cancars_err.html, and
		  mexcars_err.html for the error output; 
		- an HTML file for the log output named nacars_log.html;
		- an HTML index file for the log output named nacars_log_index.html;
		  and
		- an HTML file with links to all this output named nacars_mta.html

	all in a subdirectory named c:\x12a\html.

Example 3: Data Metafile

    For a data metafile named sim.dta given below:

		sim01
		sim02
		sim03

	and after running Version 0.3 of X-12-ARIMA as below:

		x12a airline -d sim -a

	running

		cnvout2html sim.dta c:\x12a\html\

	will generate

		- HTML output files named sim01.html, sim02.html, and sim03.html
		  for the program output;
		- HTML index files named sim01_index.html, sim02_index.html, and
		  sim03_index.html;
		- HTML files named sim01_err.html, sim02_err.html, and
		  sim03_err.html for the error output; 
		- an HTML file for the log output named sim_log.html;
		- an HTML index file for the log output named sim_log_index.html,
		  and
		- an HTML file with links to all this output named sim_dta.html

	all in a subdirectory named c:\x12a\html.

	Note that this utility has been integrated into the Windows Interface
	to X-12-ARIMA - for more details, access the documentation for the
	Windows Interface from the following website:

		http://www.census.gov/srd/www/x12a/runx12doc.html

	Note that file names with spaces need to be enclosed in double quotes,
	just as in Version 0.3 of X-12-ARIMA.
	

	This program was written with the Icon programming language, 
    with special routines provided by the Icon program library.  
    For more information on Icon, see "The Icon Programming Language, 
    Third Edition" by Ralph E. Griswold and Madge T. Griswold,
    published by Peer-to-Peer Communications.
    
    The source code for this program is available upon request.


Support:

    Contact Brian C. Monsell at any one of the following:

    Email:   brian.c.monsell@census.gov
    Fax:     (301) 763-8399
    Phone:   (301) 763-1721 (or 301-763-1649)
    Address: Statistical Research Division
             U. S. Census Bureau
             4600 Silver Hill Road
             Washington, DC  20233


Revision Date : May 2, 2007
