X12DIAG03


Purpose:

    To create a summary of seasonal adjustment diagnostics for a given
    X-12-ARIMA seasonal adjustment run or a set of seasonal adjustment
    runs from a metafile using the unified diagnostics file from Version
    0.3 of X-12-ARIMA.

	This utility is a DOS utility - the examples below assume you are
	running the utility within a DOS command window, and are running
	the utility in the same directory that the utility is stored in.


Syntax:

    x12diag03 filename {-m or -d}

    where:

    filename is either the filename of a seasonal adjustment diagnostics file
             stored by Version 0.3 of X-12-ARIMA, or a metafile or data
             metafile used to generate seasonal adjustment diagnostics files.

    -m denotes the filename specified in the first argument is a metafile
       (optional).

    -d denotes the filename specified in the first argument is a data
       metafile (optional).


Note:

    The unified diagnostics file that is generated for Version 0.3 of
    X-12-ARIMA has a file extension ".udg".  A metafile has a file 
    extension of ".mta".  A data metafile has a file extension of ".dta".  
    These file extensions should not be included in the first argument -
    only the filename.

    For this program to successfully produce a seasonal adjustment
    diagnostic summary, Version 0.3 of X-12-ARIMA must first be
    executed with the -s flag.  This produces a seasonal adjustment
    diagnostic file that X12DIAG reads to produce the summary.

    For example, executing

         x12a ussales -s

    produces the seasonal adjustment diagnostic file ussales.xdg, and 
    then 

         x12diag ussales

    produces the diagnostic summary file ussales.x2d.

    Similarly for metafiles, running

         x12a -m usbp -s

    produces a seasonal adjustment diagnostic file for each input
    specification file specified in usbp.mta, and then

         x12diag usbp -m

    produces diagnostic summary files from each seasonal adjustment
    diagnostic file.

	Note that a window will open upon program execution to display
	the progress of the run.  When the program is finished executing,
	striking any key will close the window.

    This program was written with the Icon programming language, 
    with special routines provided by the Icon program library.  
    For more information on Icon, see "The Icon Programming Language, 
    Third Edition" by Ralph E. Griswold and Madge T. Griswold,
    published by Peer-to-Peer Communications. 
    
    The source code for this program is available upon request.


Support:

    Contact Brian C. Monsell at any one of the following:

    Email:   brian.c.monsell@census.gov
    Fax:     (301) 763-8399
    Phone:   (301) 763-1721 (or 301-763-1649)
    Address: Statistical Research Division
             U. S. Census Bureau
             4600 Silver Hill Road
             Washington, DC  20233


Revision Date : May 2, 2007

